hello everyone thanks for coming today
thank you folks for coming the intro on
the speak was maybe a bit short so I'd
like the panelist today to present
themselves can maybe start with you
Excel uh you can tell us what's your
role in company yeah hello everyone my
name is Excel and I am a senior director
of growth operations at gorgeous which
means that my team handles all of the
data collection processing process
automation for all of the GTM team so
that's going to be marketing
Partnerships sales success Etc hi
everyone Morgan here I'm the VP of
marketing at burel we are a front-end
development Cloud platform in terms of
what I do all day is just make sure that
everybody knows about us and our brand
help the company generate both self-
serve and sales serve Revenue I'm
maronas but everybody calls me GTO so
call me GTO um I'm he's co-founder on
hyper Partners we help companies with
marketing growth and products we do a
deep advisory and try to help them grow
with lowak growth strategies before that
I was the SBP of marketing and growth at
Odo which was a o
startup okay and I'm G Kaman already
call me G so we are the two G's and I
used to run growth at a couple of
companies including segment drift Gorge
where I work with Excel and recently I'm
an adviser at ramp and I co-run hyperth
partners and I'm your host today and so
today's topic is going to be on scalable
lowak growth strategies and that's a
topic that you know GTO and I we advise
what north of 20 companies concurrently
fairly late stage companies and
obviously you've been aware that this is
like a clear shift in what the boards
and Founders are asking us and it's no
longer like growth at all cost it's low
C at all cost for better world and then
we got to come up with Creative
Solutions and so we want to share today
some some examples and pulling from
verel and gorgeous some great examples
if you can enough to share a couple
logos here obviously they're all
companies that we have worked with and
say in common the reason why we have
Morgan and Excel here in common those
companies have one thing that's fairly
unique and I wanted to pull from from
this deck here from the Key Bank Capital
deck before we Kickstart this panel and
this is from like last year's survey but
the best companies so the top companies
have a significantly lower C than the
rest now that might sound obvious but
when you look at the data here at the
bottom of this slide you're seeing it is
like
$15 versus
$180 and that is like probably one of
the most profound differences like of
the 120 slides this is the one we can
see like the biggest difference and so
it's obvious like how do you achieve
that okay so let's dive into some couple
examples and we can start I think with
one example which is automated outbound
we have two interesting situations we
have one with AEL here you're running uh
at gorgeous with a team that has like
fairly good experience on op been
outbound for a couple of years and
Morgan I think you have appetite to do
that a strong appetite so maybe let's
start there maybe Excel you can tell us
a bit about how it's running and like
some of the per performance and what we
can learn and copy yeah for sure so as G
said we've been doing automated outbound
at gorgeous for a while now and I'm
going to try and give a quick overview
of everything that's involved so in
outbound we are going to consider three
channels there's the email actually
demen genen you're going to have email
outbound you're going to have ads and
then you're going to have also customer
referral and what we do at gorgeous is
our demena
engine is fully automated and it is a
multi-channel approach to all of the
contacts that are in the companies of
our Tam so the first thing that we do is
obviously we use quite a bit of data
vendors to First have a clear overview
of what is our entire Tam and then from
there that's when the strategy comes in
so we're going to be doing a lot of
predictive analysis to categorize our t
right and prioritize where we spend our
resources cuz as we were saying before
making sure that you're making the most
out of your resources and especially
when those are quite tight is Paramount
so you want to make sure that you're
using high quality data that you audit
it quite regularly and that from there
you're making the best decisions
possible what we do with that and that's
something that we actually started with
G when you were working with us at
gorgeous that was in
2019 I think is we use a system of
signals which are basically behavioral
events that you can scrape the internet
for to understand what your Tam is doing
so a couple examples let's say a company
is so gorgeous sorry circling back here
we're a help Des for e-commerce stores
so our Persona are CX people so imagine
somebody in your Tam is hiring for a new
CX lead this is an event for us right
this is a signal that they need help to
figure out their CX motion so that's
something for us that's interesting if a
company in the Tam say is starting to
use another tool on in the Ecom SAS
world that is also a signal for us
whether that be a competitor a direct
competitor gorgeous or just a highly
compatible tool like clavio yapo Etc if
I recall from the numbers from back then
when you outbound found a prospect with
an intent signal one of those versus not
the dollars per contact were three times
to four times higher right yeah so three
to four times higher Revenue per contact
emailed when you have a predictive
signal yeah and now we basically just do
that's all you do yeah that's all we do
now and there's tons of signals out
there our entire again the engine is
fully geared around that and so
it has a system of branches of depending
on one the high fit of the company the
awareness stage that it's at with all
the different signals that we compute
and aggregate from there they're going
to fall into different branches of
actions of okay they're going to fall
into first an email sequence and then at
the third stage you're going to put in
some ads in there and then ask for
customer referral and try to have a
network map of how you can associate
prospects with your customer base or
your partners so putting all of that
together using a ton of data and
processing that's intense I like it
actually let me prompt that with one
slide and let's switch to Mor because W
like you want to build that actually I
have some data for all of you which I
pulled from ramp and so for obvious
reasons I had to obis skate the actual
numbers but I did give you the lift here
what you have here is the difference
between the average cost contact email
between the automated outd down team and
the SDR team so you have a two and 2.4x
difference and then the marginal cost
that's very important
because as Excel was pointing out
there's a lot of infrastructure there's
a lot of effort there's humans lot of
Technology lots of data vendors that
you're buying from so there's a high
upfront cost to get it running but once
it's running the marginal cost to keep
it running is extremely low and so you
can see here this adex difference yeah
goad one thing to add is something that
to me is interesting is that to get it
running what you need is Engineering in
marketing which is not something very
common but to build this you need to
hire one or two Engineers that are
working on this because some of these
integration some of the things you need
to check they need to be there one
example that I can give you that was
pretty complex that we did with humanite
tech is they saw that companies were
buying their product when they sell to
engineers and they saw that when the
engineers for example when the company
was going through an a technology stack
meaning changing programming language
that was a good time to contact so we
had to get an engineer to looked into
programming languages that developers
were using in link look into programming
languages that they were using in the
hiding page and check that every two
days if they were different that meant
that they were going through an uay of
the text tack because they were hiding
for something different that wasn't
there before and then through that using
that information then using an engineer
to automate sending the emails and
starting to wiild all of that means that
you're paying for an engineer but you're
starting to replace some of the sdrs
that otherwise you're paying so it's a
bit of a switch of the cost as well even
though it increases in the beginning but
then it slows down how many emails do
you send a month through your automated
outbound program so I think in the past
quarter we sent like about a million
million emails yeah and how big is your
T like a couple hundred thousand co co
IP couple hundred thousand so you're
reaching out to every company in your
Tam a couple times per quarter more or
less yes yes but then again through that
it's different people at different
levels within those companies and
there's a whole strategy too of who to
contact and when because I think also
our outbound strategy as a whole has
evolved quite a bit even over the past
couple years because the our position in
the market just wasn't the same
obviously so at first you kind of want
to reach out to everyone get your name
out there make sure that you're known
and then there's a shift that comes in
where you have to make sure that you
protect your brand reputation even just
for emailing capabilities you get
deliverability oh for sure so you need
to work on that and then it's about
really mastering that balance between
quantity and quality and then really
working into the creative aspect to it
so there's big again engineering upfront
work and I would say for us we weren't
even really engineering so just learn on
the job how to do some of that
engineering like work today though I
feel like there are a lot of tools out
there that can get you to that level of
sophistication without being a proper
engineer there is a lot of no code or
low code tools that can help you do that
and Morgan where we talked earlier just
before this like that you had the
yearning the appetite to do this because
right now you're fairly SDR heavy like
where are you on this journey and like
why this appetite yeah so versel is
still a relatively young company and
when I joined about two years ago every
single salesperson was hitting their
number or exceeding their target solely
off of inbound and when I joined I was
like wow I would have loved to actually
be a salesperson here instead of on
marketing but as we started to continue
to grow and our targets remained highly
aggressive we needed to think about
other ways we were going to hit our
Revenue targets without just relying on
inbound what we did at first is build a
product Advocates team instead of a
traditional inbound SDR team and so
these were versel is a developer company
selling to developers so what we did is
we hired people just out of boot boot
camps that may have not gotten a job as
an engineer at a company to take on this
inbound SDR role and we did that for 2
years and it worked out quite well for
us cuz they could actually answer the
questions that came in through inbound
but as we started to move up Market we
needed to move away from just capturing
demand from midmarket and actually
really start bringing demand to us from
the Enterprise and strategic segment so
we quickly hired 15 outbound sdrs in a
period of 6 months what we've noticed
now is that we have a very heavy or very
large SDR team that may not know
actually how to go outbound to the
developer audience and so we're asking
ourselves would it be more effective if
we actually pivoted to an automated
outbound model so that we could be
sending tens of thousands of emails a
week and then passing anyone that's
responding to those emails over to the
SDR team and then are able to shrink the
size of the team to be more effective
and lower our acquisition costs yeah I
think actually like I have yeah I have
just here actually the payback period
for multiple of my clients which I
obviously normalized here and this is
like Looking Backward and starting to
shift but there's something we talked
about which is happening which is the
outbound Channel both for email and
calls were on a I'd say downwards
performance Trend over the past 10 years
mostly because everyone was being like
it was been commoditized everyone was
been like desensitized to getting like
personalized emails and calls and with
the arrival of AI in llms the quality of
the content is so much better that there
is for now a return of there's renewed
performance actually like there's this
tweet which I found fairly recently a
couple weeks ago of somebody saying that
the outbound they're getting from ramp
is the best emails ever and those are
automated all right a fully automated
there's no human involved in sending
this no human was harmed at least on on
our side so best crafted
spam effective but I have a point there
which is generally I'm a happy camper if
I provide value in the email so here's
the question I have which is if you
provide True Value if your email is
truly helpful does it matter but if it
was written by a human or
not for the audience that I Market to it
doesn't matter and in fact sometimes if
you let them know that it was generated
through AI it has higher click-through
rates but that isn't the same for
everybody not everybody's slanging
developer S software but there's an
honesty aspect to it for sure that
people can relate to
yeah so I think like there there is a
shift in quality there's a shift in
expectations I don't think it's going to
last I think there's going to be like a
return to median in a couple of quarters
as people get desensitized again but for
now there are like there's new tools
both on the cold calling as well as on
the email side and content creation side
that you should go get those conversion
and those low Cs and if you're not I
think you're being left behind like
you're absolutely get left behind and I
think what's key now for all of that is
understanding what are the right data
vendors to use and if there are not
right ones for you is what can you scrap
what can you get out of it like you were
talking about using tools but I'm a big
believer that if you're using the same
tools that all of the rest are using it
doesn't work because it's the same you
have to be unique I'm a big believer
that it's better to be different than
better so if that's the case it's how
can I be more unique how can I search
something different the rest is not
searching how can I in the email send
you something that nobody expect one
example that you had that was pretty
good was for example sending gifts you
create gifts with injecting Things based
on how something would look like or you
do a deep fake with something that is
more custom now and I think trying to be
a bit more creative on some of those
things and trying to actually use the
engineer for build that will make a
difference when you're trying to build
these lowak out automated outbound
strategies yeah absolutely okay we're
good on outbound you want to shift to
another lowak okay so other lowak foren
GTO here
a product Le sales GTO yeah to talk a
little bit about this is I think the
example that Morgan shared before is
fantastic most companies become prod
growth because it's they think it's
going to be cheap and they think it's
going to be just self-service but the
reality is that most companies that do
product grow are not self-service
because in the end they need to get to
Enterprise because that's where the real
money is but if you only do Enterprise
and you forget about your user from the
plg perspective and it stops working so
to me thinking about what's a good
experience on product Le sales is what
makes a difference and I'll give you an
example again selling to developers one
thing for example that we're doing is we
copied from Morgan the idea of do using
these product Advocates which are
basically these Junior very Junior
developers that will act as sdrs but one
thing that we're doing for example is
trying to understand if somebody got
stuck trying to implement the product
how do we do that we started with they
click on one place in the dashboard they
click on another and then they come back
if they come back and they don't do
anything something weird is going on if
they click on a section and they stay
there for 20 30 seconds maybe they are
lost but one thing we trying to use now
is AI to figure out if they are stuck
and then if they are stuck the question
is we want to contact them because we
want to be useful and stuck them and
then sell them but the other question is
how creepy can we be can we tell them
like hey you're stucked we're going to
help you or they don't like it so I'm a
big believer on testing your creepiness
level on how creepy you can be with your
audience what's interesting is that with
developers they love us to be creepy
because they are like oh this is very
cool they did engineering work to be
creepy I love it so it worked but when
you work with other audiences maybe it
doesn't but I think starting to think
about how to build your product let
sales maybe starting to use more AI
starting to automating and testing your
creepiness level is a good way to think
about PLS to create these Enterprise
level deals from a prod growth
perspective and if we take a step back I
think we've had this debate a couple
times where we're getting asked from
Founders on the advisory fund all the
time to help them build like product Le
growth like all the freaking time and we
ask like why like why do they want to do
plg when they don't have like a plg
product and the truth is if you think if
you actually deconstruct the why it's
because because they want lowak and they
just mentally little the bridge that
product Le growth means like free
signups free signup is lak that sounds
great so let's just do this plg thing
but they don't have the product that
goes with it right there's no virality
there's almost sometimes no like way for
the user to get to success on their own
and so there's no way to build like plg
and so there's actually a better way of
like Building Product Le signup motions
with separate products to get people
engaged and then push that into a sales
motion and that is a much easier
transition than like shifting your
entire product from an Enterprise
product down to a self- serve like plg
product which no one really pulls
off but like Moran you have a you have a
true plg product don't you yeah we have
a both like a freemium plan and we have
a free trial model like our freemium
plan is bringing in 100,000 signups of
month which is a lot of people to be
communicating with and I always tell my
team that like it's imagine filling a
football stadium and then trying to
figure out of all the people in the
football stadium who needs to talk to
the sales team which is quite hard so I
think if you're just starting off this
model that we're talking about product
Advocates is a really interesting one
because it actually shifts the mindset
of being proactive customer support and
if you're doing things in the the best
interest of your customers to make sure
that they fully understand how to use
the product whether in a creepy way or
an un creepy way you get really good
outcomes and you let people start to
self-identify that they have the intent
that they actually are maybe in the
wrong place and they they do want to be
speaking to a salesperson cuz they know
for sure they're going to get a discount
or they're looking for C certain
security compliance features that are
not available in the free
plan and then if you maybe don't have a
real plg business model I do think
thinking about free trials in terms of
intent is another interesting way one
thing that we did at versel is we
realized listen some people they don't
even want to go try the free plan and
they don't even want to take the effort
to start a free trial and maybe they're
not also ready to talk to a salesperson
for an interactive demo and so we built
our own just like self-served demo that
allows someone to look around in the
product and see what it would look like
with enabled they don't have to do
implementation themselves you build
yourself inous notic wallnuts involved
yes interesting why just because those
are the people that have the lowest
intent but still have intent and we're
not asking them to do anything I think
plg is great but the user is still on
the hook to do something and they might
not have the time of the day or they it
just might not be the right moment I
actually I want to double cick on that
cuz love that trail of thought there
actually there's a connection between
outbound and and plg where they're both
like very high scale low conversion
motions and if you just compare like I
know let's say sales Le businesses
there's like a complete opposition like
in the sales Le business the cost of
doing the sales is fairly High you have
humans involved you've got like sdrs and
a and it do drop us at every point and
so you're trying to be careful thus like
all the qualification tools where you're
trying to basically drisk and remove
some of the costs that might come into
your funnel and plg and alound is the
opposite there's no cost for you to get
people on this like selfhosted demo self
sof demo right and so you're trying to
push as many as possible and the people
like will self- select oh vers is the
right tool for me this is perfect I'm
the right user and those who get through
are qualified and so you have
qualification like scenarios the
question is that who's doing the
qualification who's bearing the cost and
then in the plg slon model the user is
bearing the cost right and in the sales
that model like you the company is buing
the cost which is why we're alling this
shift from the company to plg outbound
because yeah we want to shift the cost
to the users that's what's going on yeah
we that interactive demo is completely
ungated so anyone can try it we're not
asking you for your email and then at
the very end we just say are you
interested in chatting with someone from
the sales team or are you interested in
starting starting a trial and we let
them just choose on their own it does
reduce the amount of leads that we're
generating but we don't want a large SDR
team so we found it to be more effective
can you give us some examples I thought
there was some cool examples of
community and P GTO yeah like the other
thing that to me is interesting is if
you think about Community is also one or
few to many things where you want to
blow up or become a thought leader or
become known in a specific community so
that then people start coming to you one
thing that we've done with one of our
customers that I think is very
interesting is when everybody thinks
about Community they think that they
have to create their own Community but I
think in most cases that's not a good
idea I think it makes sense to create
your own Community when you have
something that is free for everybody or
it's a big portion that is free or if
it's open source if it's a developer
product but if it's not that then you
have a closed product people need to pay
they don't want to be part of your
community like why so in those cases to
me it's one about how how do I tap into
existing communities and existing
communities are still relationship based
so one thing that we did for example was
after interviewing a few of IC from our
target market we figured out who were
the 20 people on Twitter and YouTube
that we wanted to talk about us so what
we did is without them knowing we
followed them around the world we looked
into what conferences they were speaking
and we spoke into all of those
conferences the people who spoke at
those conferences were just two they
flew around and the idea was we went to
those conferences not because of you're
following people around the world at
conferences yeah I was going to say like
the cre Factor e towards the edge here
and in in that case instead of caring
about the attendees like you we cared
about the speakers because you have a
speaker dinner you go drinking with them
you build a relationship with them and
then because of that they started to
share our content so then what's our
distribution Talent it's not Google it's
actually the community who are the
influencers in this community that we
have a relationship with that share our
content and then people are like wow
everybody's talking about this company
this might this must be great but even
though the product in this case is great
that might not be the case and it's more
a relationship driven thing that is
making it happen that makes sense yeah
and for versel uh we had a different
approach we didn't necessarily tap into
an existing Community although we are
like a react based framework and we did
tap into that Community You could argue
but we ended up creating our own
open-source framework and essentially
we're giving technology away for free
and that's growing the community that an
xjs Community is what actually fuels all
of our growth so if that number is going
up and to the right of how many people
are using nextjs we seem the same
correlation for how many people are
actually signing up on our paid platform
and it was a very similar model from
when I worked at GitHub what I love
about that is that even though your
product was not free or was not open
source you created something in parallel
that is free and open source and people
can use and then once people are using
it you're like oh but they works so much
better in my platform yeah and I think
that's a fantastic way to build your own
Community with something that's I want
to say it works that way but not the
other way around because like when you
have a successful business then you open
source part of it you already have the
monetization framework that works great
because then you're creating growth G
and I we both have been involved in like
open Source businesses which try to like
monetize on top of like completely open
source like community and that's been
like one hell of a struggle because they
have no monetization paths and people
are like hey this free platform is open
source platform is great why should I
pay and so the shift of the perception
is not there and that's been a real
struggle so I think like the couple of
businesses like versel I was in segment
is the same Right monetization comes
first open source for acquisition comes
second other way around is like super
hard my
opinion cool any other creative tactics
you want to share go on to more
creepiness ideas I have one more to
share I was sure which isn't that creepy
I'll say but one of the things that we
did for example with influencers as well
is we wanted influencers we wanted
people to think more of our brand and
know us more so one thing that we did
was we looked into the known influencers
in the space again in this case they
were developers as well and they had
some open source framework and they had
their own landing pages and what we did
was two things one is we started to go
and offer them for free to redesign
their websites so open source framework
and the influencer page we did it for
free hey we'll redesign it we'll do
everything of this for you and of course
they said yes because it's free but why
did we do it because this is the creepy
part the thing is that coming I knew it
yeah our redesign is exactly with the
same branding same color same everything
as the product brand
so now people don't see it but when they
go to every influencer page and to every
framework page they see the same type of
logos the same type of colors and they
think it's related even though it's not
so with that they feel a bit more
related to this and one last thing that
we added on top of that is that we asked
them that if in exchange of this free
the rign they could add retargeting
pixel on their website so the idea of
that is that now if anybody goes to any
of these open source framework works we
can Target them with ads even though we
don't know who they are but we know that
if they're going to that page it makes a
lot of sense for us as a customer as
well basis of marketing you're offering
something of a perceived value which is
much perceivably higher but very low
cost to you and in exchange getting
something very high value to you but
very low cost to them so it's a good
trade exactly a good trade I like it
okay a couple of like takeaways from
today so what what you talk about so
strong shift towards like lowak like
absolutely like high volume lowak in
very different businesses like you look
at Excel at gorgeous and Morgan at Vel
like we're talking of two different
Industries and motions but the yearning
is the same right and what gja and I are
seeing in our talks with Founders is
Founders obviously want to have their
cake and eat it right and so they want
both right you both want like the low
CAC of the outbound and you want the plg
motion and you want it now and so that's
what's going on honestly you should
start somewhere not on both sides is my
opinion and so plg for sales Le plg2
sales Le is probably the new thing we're
seeing right now I think that's the
major shift we're seeing right now with
AI empowered outbound I think are the
two major shifts we're seeing I think
it's that and also the combination of
both of them together like you're doing
plg and you have ic's from something
individual contributors signing up then
you automate maybe show showing ads to
their bosses so that because of
availability byas when they bring it up
they'll remember it and then you send
them emails that are automated based on
information from what the developer is
doing and what others are doing and
using AI so I think also the combination
of these two strategies is where things
start to get fun creepy I don't know
something yeah I think there's really a
strong shift with the tools we have like
both like Excel talked about the low
code tools but also like the AI tools
like on the copyrighting and automation
part as well as on plg like if you're
not using this you're going to be left
behind and I also don't think it's going
to last super long there's going to be a
reversion to the mean in the next couple
quarters as people become desensitized
and so there is a Time window to do this
right now there's a significant benefit
if your competitors are not doing this
to do it yourself but in three four
quarters you'll have to do something
else cool thank you thank you so much
we're at time I thank you so much for
coming today and I hope you can go talk
to your Founders your CEOs and do at
least one of those two campaigns thank
you
[Applause]
folks